Broken Access Control – Privilege Escalation via Role Manipulation

🧾 Summary

A critical Broken Access Control vulnerability was discovered in the account registration process.
The application allows a user to modify their assigned role during account creation, enabling a normal user to escalate privileges to an administrator.

This occurs because the backend trusts user-controlled input for role assignment instead of enforcing server-side authorization.

⸻

📍 Affected Component
 • User Registration Endpoint
 • Account Creation Flow

⸻

⚙️ Steps to Reproduce

1. Create a Normal User Account

Register a new account using the application’s standard signup form.

⸻

2. Intercept the Request/Response

Using a proxy tool (e.g., Burp Suite), capture the registration request and response.

The response contains:

{
  "username": "bob ",
  "role": "customer"
}

This indicates the default role assigned by the server.

⸻

3. Modify the Request

Copy the request and send it to the request editor.

Change the role parameter from:

"role": "customer"
to:

"role": "admin"

4. Forward the Modified Request

Send the modified request to the server.

⸻

5. Result

The account is created successfully with elevated privileges:
 • Role is set to admin
 • No validation or restriction is enforced by the server

⸻

📸 Proof of Concept
 • Registration request showing modified role parameter
 • Response confirming role assignment
 • Access to admin-only features/dashboard

⸻

💥 Impact

This vulnerability allows an attacker to:
 • Escalate privileges from normal user → admin
 • Access restricted administrative functionalities
 • View or modify sensitive data
 • Fully compromise application integrity

This is a critical security issue under OWASP Top 10: A01 – Broken Access Control.

⸻

🔍 Root Cause

The application trusts client-side input for sensitive fields such as:
 • User role
 • Access level

Instead of enforcing role assignment strictly on the backend.

⸻

🛠️ Recommended Fix
 • Never accept role values from client-side input during registration
 • Assign user roles only on the server side
 • Implement strict authorization checks on all admin routes
 • Validate and sanitize all incoming requests
 • Enforce role-based access control (RBAC)

⸻

🚨 Severity

Critical

⸻

🧠 Notes

This issue demonstrates a classic privilege escalation scenario caused by improper authorization handling. Proper server-side validation would completely prevent this attack.
